finally the last part arrived for my
brand new gaming PC Elijah Elijah Elijah
wasting money again when you could have
just used your old case or better yet
this one that someone was just throwing
away those things are older than I am
there's no way it's going to fit all my
Modern Hardware
really challenge
accepted see too easy and with the money
I saved I upgraded your CPU your SSD and
even your memory wow but there must be a
downside right otherwise why would
companies continue to make cases okay
there are some downsides your old case
is not going to have the latest USB
standards it's not going to have a fancy
glass panel or nice Cable Management
it'll also probably make your rig look
kind of worthless but I see that as an
absolute win this kind of thriftiness
can save you hundreds of dollars over
time so I'll tell you what Elijah you
come up with some fany feature your new
case has and I'm going to make it happen
on this one at a fraction of the price
deal but only if I can tell them about
our
sponsor gskill their Trident Z5 CK ddr5
CU dim memory is designed for core Ultra
200 series CPUs and features a built-in
clock driver for support for up to 9600
megat transfers per second learn more at
the link in the video description step
one of saving money on a case is to get
creative and get your hands on the
cheapest possible possible canvas for
your modding Masterpiece local
electronics recyclers can be a great bet
but if that fails there's always
Facebook Marketplace and sorting from
low to high we're going to start there
after the usual runaround from jerks who
label things free that aren't free we
were lucky enough to find not just one
but a handful of cases that would work
but do note that not all cases are made
equal for starters you'll want to make
note of the size so you can make sure
that whatever Parts you plan to use are
going to fit also materials if you're
going to have to modify your case well
you'll want a material that your tools
can work with speaking of modifying my
power supply is going to be suffocating
up top most cases have vents now for it
and so does this one it just doesn't
know it
[Music]
yet look at that who says shirro from
the business team's the only one with a
grill his looks much nicer no I haven't
goldplated it yet
okay now obviously most people are not
going to have the tools at home to do
something like this but many Hardware
shops do allow rentals and some cities
even have maker spaces and Tool
libraries that you can use to help get
the job done now I just need to cut
these plastic strips off here and clean
things up a little
[Music]
by the way I fully acknowledge that we
could have just had the intake fan on
the bottom but Elijah asked for a grill
and now he has one I'm almost afraid to
ask what you're going to do for my CPU
and GPU but here it goes the case is
sealed off at the front Linus how are
you going to cool that
Elijah does have a point there's nowhere
to mount case fans here we'll talk more
about that later but for now one trick
that is very popular on r/ tech support
mcgyver is just ripping the side panel
off and then pointing a regular old
household fan at the system it's going
to be just as effective now we're just
about ready to start our build but
before we do let's do a quick history
lesson on why I expect all of my brand
new parts to work in a case that's 20
years old
Adam the computer guy I'm so glad you
asked the ATX standard for motherboards
was patented in 1995 and the mounting
holes and IO locations of the three most
common sizes ATX microatx and Mini ITX
have remained unchanged since 1995 but
don't let the secret get out there have
been other changes like the motherboard
power connectors and internal slots and
headers but none of them affect the
shape of the board so any board as long
as it follows the standard should fit in
any old case and it does as you can see
the io Shield goes here or doesn't for
boards that have them built in and nine
quick screws later we are
G2G actually uh does it require a back
plate for the CPU Cooler yes it does ah
another feature we're going to need to
add older cases didn't have a cutout to
install a CPU back plate once you
already had the motherboard in but don't
worry I got you covered
all right ready yep
yeah come on that was pretty cool yeah
okay isn't that fantastic yeah it looks
pretty good and if we wanted to avoid
all that extra work all we would have
had to do was install this on the
motherboard before we put it in the case
like the old days so we installed it
took it out cut the hole just to put it
back to put this on yeah
now you have this feature and look it
almost won't slice your hand open this
point in the video I can't tell if I'm
on Team new case or team an old case
we're having fun though yeah yeah maybe
the cases the friends are made along the
way probably the wildest thing that
hasn't changed is the PIN outs for these
front panel connectors this HD audio
connector boom still HD let's go same
goes for my USB 2
as well as my front power switch reset
switch and LEDs but what about USBC I
want to charge my
phone poor innocent Elijah you weren't
there for the good old days of PC
Building when cases used to come with
these bad boys 5 and 1/4 in Bays which
for some inexplicable reason
manufacturers still make accessories for
as tempted as I was by the fan
controller the hard drive caddy and the
literal drawer I felt that this iio
would better address Elijah's concerns
type-c USB 3.2 two USB 3A ports two USB
2 ports and even front panel audio now
it's a fair criticism that buying one of
these can cost as much as a case some of
them are pretty fancy boasting features
like premium audio decks but in the
spirit of buying into form factors that
you can carry forward with you I would
recommend an external deck anyway rather
than a fancy one of these so you could
move it around and use it on your laptop
as well all right so I'm at
$20 what else do you need well I bought
RGB RAM and that Secura GPU I would like
to be able to see them and this side
panel you know don't just leave it off
cuz I have
cats okay if you must have a side panel
window Home Depot sells sheets of
acrylic and pretty much any size you
need all we got to do is cut it up more
cutting oh great
and there it is there's multiple options
for cutting acrylic you can score it and
break it you can use a laser or probably
the best option if you want to keep
things simple is to just buy the right
size in the first place so we've got our
side panel window but I'm going to do
you one better okay with nothing but a
whole saw a pair of old panty hose and a
can do attitude we can throw some
filtered side intakes on this mama jama
feeding fresh air directly to our
hungriest components cool let's do it
you got the pany right
no but I have something
else that is not going to work yes it
will that is actually
terrible I'm kind of thinking intake fan
here intake fan here for our GPU and I
don't know oh I thought that's how about
another one here this cutout was going
to be for the I know we're going to put
an intake fan on the acrylic on the
acrylic yeah oh that's not what I had in
mind but okay can do at get it together
please don't break the acrylic this is
our one sheet well that's a pretty
sheety
situation get
[Applause]
cutting I'm a little worried about doing
this on the acrylic by the way are we
going to like shatter it to
bits do we want to just not take the
risk so that way I can see all my pretty
components without shattering
it okay that tell Elijah but I'm pretty
concerned about this ripping up the
acrylic too let's see how this
goes what was that on
nothing see it's working perfectly just
like I told you cool I have an
idea oh my oh my God I just need more
weight sir I just need more
weight oh yeah it's so cooked what do
you mean it's cooked that's plastic like
right there you cracked it all along
there
no all right I guess we're only going to
find out when we peel the paper off
[Music]
yeah it looks like a screaming
person that's a Vibe that's this video
Let's see if lus actually did crack it
or
not
wow I for sure thought this thing was
destroyed underneath that is why you
fail it's a movie reference you wouldn't
get it oh okay what
movie The Empire Strikes Back oh okay
from the Boomer Star
Wars you can cut that you can cut you
can
cut cut please cut please cut please
this window is going to stay on it's
like 9,000 lb of VHB holding strength
that's that's good I wanted a side panel
window so you will have one forever I
want the best one damn it Elijah those
lines are really not straight that's
okay no it's really not well we can't
can't go back now no we really
can't okay you know what from the
outside it's probably it's actually not
that bad oh yeah that's fine I mean
compared to everything else about this
side panel it really doesn't stand
out look at that side intakes front IO
ah mother board tray cut out the only
question now is is our power supply
going to fit Professor Adam Adam the
computer guy believe it or not the width
and the height of standard PC power
supplies have stayed the same since 1995
and dimensionally only the length has
changed over the years as systems have
gotten more power hungry again there
have been other changes some of them
controversial but even the mounting hole
locations remain unchanged now there is
one thing the original spec had the PSU
as close to the CPU as possible why the
belief was the fan could pull double
duty pulling air over the passive CPU
heat sink and also cooling the PSU
before exhausting it in completely from
the system but that obviously won't work
because processors noway like 250 wats
it's freaking stupid why would you need
that much
power there that resolves the last major
hurdle but here's the thing not
everyone's going to be building a
mid-range system so why don't we take
our case and take it to the next level
to see if it can handle a high-end
machine to do this again I'd probably
make sure that there's no little metal
filing bits left in here that could fall
into the power supply that could be
catastrophic
but I'm not doing it again I'm doing it
now and inside here is about
$3600 worth of modern power hungry
Hardware including a 16 4 CPU and a 4090
GPU as you can see everything fits let's
game before we fire up a game I think we
should test our cooling it's not the
quietest thing in the world and we
appear to have a bit of a problem here
oh our temperatures immediately spiked
to 81 and we are using 63% of our power
also I couldn't help noticing that one
of our fans is actually getting spun
backwards do you think there's too much
back pressure in there I do
okay see here's the thing though Elijah
I thought the front panel was staying
open I mean we can open it I designed it
for maximum intake there's too much
pressure in the computer okay she cannot
take it open the front panel then here
we go let's see what happens when we do
that they are staying the same it's not
even hot in here oh Liah that 12pin
power connector is not plugged in all
the way no it was I had an issue where
it wasn't plugged in so I plugged it in
more look at it oh my God turn it
off
nope you said turn it off oh the clip is
broken oh okay that man that's weird cuz
yeah I opened it up and I was like
expecting it to be an inferno down here
in the bottom of the case um cuz that
would explain 61% power usage you know
what none of this even adds up because
why was the GPU at 80 then if it was
only using 60% power and
theral issue weren't plugged in has this
GPU been disassembled and reassembled I
don't know I grabbed it from the Shelf I
didn't I just didn't check I just
grabbed it from
inventory the good news is that on LTT
store.com we can find PTM 7950 thermal
pads that we can use to repaste this GPU
and get great temperatures guess who
just volunteered dude I nope I'm just
going to go find a different 490 from
inventory nope
I'm GL really glad my one day shoot
turned into a three-day
shoot my side quest is complete and as
you can see the 490 is in my hand
because I actually had to put a
different one in the computer this is
the one that Alex like tore apart for
some water cooling and that sh mod where
it can draw 1,000 Watts this cooler
cannot cool it so goodbye this 490 and
welcome in the AME 490 we're going to
try rerunning firmar and see if we run
into the same issues we did before I'm
pretty confident we won't so let's just
hit the 4K one let's see what happens
happens here oh yeah already our
temperature is much much better than the
80 yesterday and our power seems to be
recording correctly we're drawing like
440 Watts on the GPU right now I may be
acting surprised that Linus's Jank work
did do well but I'm not as dumb as the
character I play on TV I do know that
buying a new case every single time when
you're upgrading your computer is a
mistake especially if you're on a tight
budget but I also know that it's not the
worst idea either if you're already
planning on shoving an entire small
nation's power consumption worth of
Parts into your computer you might not
be in a position where you need to pinch
Pennies on a case and even if you aren't
worried about pinching pennies it might
not be a bad idea to pick up something
that's not this because if you get a
nice case now you can still carry it
forward for future builds which again
will save you the money before you do
jump the gun on buying a premium case
let's go back to our original $1,000
budget and we'll show you what we were
able to upgrade you can choose to double
the ram double the storage and go from a
six core to an eight core CPU that is
faster and I could honestly give you an
infinite number of systems to use with
the extra 10% of your budget we gave up
our time but it was worth it in the end
because we were able to get a much more
powerful system and while lonus isn't
here to share an our Glory of it working
we did have fun along the way I got to
learn how to use some power tools and
you know maybe touching our tools is
actually more fun than you know touching
grass did he script that he really
scripped that okay and it's almost as
much fun as our our sponsor ground news
their mission is to give you the tools
to understand where your news is coming
from so you can get as close to the
actual facts as possible and then come
to your own conclusions after all
everybody has a bias like the bias
towards thinking you don't have a bias
and are way more objective and rational
than those other people who are so
biased so ground news analyzes breaking
stories from thousands of sources from
across the globe and across the
political Spectrum breaking down which
stories are being reported by whom for
example check out this story about AI
startup perplexity recently being sued
for infringement it got very little
coverage from right leaning Outlets left
leaning sources emphasize the legal
aspects about the story while the center
is focusing more on the overall struggle
around content usage ground news helps
you be informed of stories like this
that might be missing from your regular
news diet with their blind spot feed
which shows news stories that are mostly
covered by only one side of the
political Spectrum when you find
something you're interested in you can
add relevant interests to your for you
feed to see more similar news so start
reading the news not without bias but
informed of it so you can understand
what the heck is going on in the world
and be potentially the smartest person
in it go to ground. news/ LT or click
the link in the description to get 40%
off their unlimited access Vantage plan
today if you guys enjoyed this video
Let's look back at a $1,000 build that
the Forum suggested we asked Reddit R
forum and PC part picker and they were
we're all quite different